README.md, before:

DockWin - Lightweight Docking Windows for Emacs
===============================================

![](screencast.gif?raw=true)

DockWin provides four expandable side docking windows for your Emacs frame, one
on each side of the frame (top, bottom, left, right). The docking windows have
three states: closed, inactive, and active. They automatically expand when
activated and collapse when inactive. Each window can be configured to host only
certain selected buffers (e.g. use the bottom window for shells and compile
windows, top for help windows and side for undo tree).

The goal of DockWin is to provide the docking window functionality which can be
found integrated into larger packages (e.g. EDE) in a lightweight independent
package. Also, DockWin will not destroy any of your non-docking windows (e.g. in
order to re-create the layout) which might be important for other packages.


Basic Usage
-----------

Whenever a new dockable buffer is displayed, a docking window will be created.
If you choose to automatically activate the window (see Configuration), it will
also be expanded and the focus will be placed in the window. The commands
`dockwin-toggle-<position>-window` can be used to activate and deactivate a
specific window. It's good to have a convenient binding for that (see Key
Bindings).

The command `dockwin-go-to-previous-window` can be used globally to always go to
the previous active non-docking window. I prefer that over the standard
`other-window`, especially when coupled with
[Windmove](http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Window-Convenience.html).

When a docking window is activated, the command `dockwin-switch-to-buffer` is
locally bound to a key, which by default is `C-x C-b`, and thus replaces the
standard buffer list key. This command lists all the buffers that match the
current docking window using IDO and allows for convenient switching between
relevant buffers in a docking window. The buffers are listed in the order that
they were current; the buffers that were current most recently come first.

When enabled, the mode-line will display all buffers relevant for the docking
window, sorted alphabetically. It is then possible to move to the previous/next
buffer in alphabetical order using
`dockwin-previous-buffer`/`dockwin-next-buffer`, by default bound to `C-x
<left>`/`C-x <right>`. It is also possible to simply click on the buffer name
on the mode-line to switch to the buffer.

You can control what happens after killing a buffer or quitting a window (using
`quit-window`). In such case, the docking window can remain active (displaying a
different buffer), become inactive or completely closed (hidden). It is also
possible to configure certain buffers to always be killed when quitting the
window. `C-x C-g` bound to `dockwin-close-window` can be used to close the
window without killing/quitting any buffers.


Installation
------------

I highly recommend installing DockWin through elpa (it's available on melpa).

```
M-x package-install dockwin
```

Then, add the following line to your init file:

```
(require 'dockwin)
```


Configuration - Key Bindings
----------------------------

DockWin does not perform any global keyboard setup, but it's easy to configure the relevant key bindings.

If you plan to use all four windows and are not really using the default Fx bindings, this might work:

```
(global-set-key (kbd "<f1>") 'dockwin-toggle-left-window)
(global-set-key (kbd "<f2>") 'dockwin-toggle-top-window)
(global-set-key (kbd "<f3>") 'dockwin-toggle-bottom-window)
(global-set-key (kbd "<f4>") 'dockwin-toggle-right-window)
```

If you need only one or two windows, this might work for you:

```
(global-set-key (kbd "C-'") 'dockwin-toggle-bottom-window)
(global-set-key (kbd "C-\"") 'dockwin-toggle-right-window)

```

The `dockwin-go-to-previous-window` command is handy as well to jump between two frequently used
non-docking windows, you can bind it globally e.g. over the standard `other-window`:

```
(global-set-key (kbd "C-x o") 'dockwin-dockwin-go-to-previous-window)
```

Finally, if you would like to customize the local key bindings used inside the docked buffers,
modify the `dockwin-buffer-mode-map`, e.g.:

```
(define-key dockwin-buffer-mode-map (kbd "C-x C-b") nil)
(define-key dockwin-buffer-mode-map (kbd "<new_key>") 'dockwin-switch-to-buffer)
```


Configuration - DockWin
-----------------------

Now, you can configure DocWin using customize:

```
M-x customzie-group dockwin
```

or by changing the following variables in your init file:

- `dockwin-buffer-settings` - Buffer settings. Determine which buffers should be shown in docking
  windows and how they should be displayed. The value is a list of `CONFIG` which should be of the
  form `(PATTERN . PROPERTIES)` where `PATTERN` is characterizing the buffer and `PROPERTIES` is a list
  of `KEYWORDS` and `VALUES`. `PATTERN` can be a buffer name matching regexp, or a symbol specifying
  the major-mode of the buffer. Note, that for some buffers, the major mode symbol will not work as
  the mode is set after the buffer is displayed (for those, use the regexp name instead). The first
  matching configuration is used. Available keywords:
    - `:position` - The docking window which should be used for the buffer. Possible values: `top`,
      `:bottom`, `left`, `right`.
    - `:activate` - If true, the docking window will be activated when this buffer is displayed. Note,
             that if some other Emacs code activates the window, DockWin will not prevent it even if
             this is set to nil.
    - `:kill` - If true, always kill the buffer on quit.
    - `:catch-switching` - If set to 't, `switch-to-buffer` events will be caught as well. If set to
              'f, those events will not be caught. If set to nil, default value will be used. Some
              buffers are displayed in the current window using `switch-to-buffer` rather than
              `display-buffer`, e.g. term. Using this option will allow for displaying such buffers
              in the docking windows as well. However, this will make it impossible to display the
              buffer in a non-docking window, e.g. using `C-x b`. After catching such event,
              window will always be activated.

- `dockwin-default-position` - Default docking window position for a buffer specified in the
  settings. This must be one of: `left`, `top`, `right`, or `bottom`. This value can be overridden
  by a property in `dockwin-buffer-settings`.

- `dockwin-default-kill` - If not nil, buffers in docking windows will be killed by default. This
  value can be overridden by a property in `dockwin-buffer-settings`.

- `dockwin-default-activate` - If not nil, windows will be activated by default when buffers are
  displayed. This value can be overridden by a property in `dockwin-buffer-settings`.

- `dockwin-default-catch-switching` - If not nil, `switch-to-buffer` events will be caught as well.
  Some buffers are displayed in the current window using `switch-to-buffer` rather than
  `display-buffer`, e.g. `term`. Using this option will allow for displaying such buffers in the
  docking windows as well. However, this will make it impossible to display the buffer in a
  non-docking window, e.g. using `C-x b`. After catching such event, window will always be
  activated. This value can be overridden by a property in `dockwin-buffer-settings`.

- `dockwin-bottom-height-min` - Bottom window size when inactive

- `dockwin-bottom-height-max` - Bottom window size when active

- `dockwin-top-height-min` - Top window size when inactive

- `dockwin-top-height-max` - Top window size when active

- `dockwin-left-width-min` - Left window size when inactive

- `dockwin-left-width-max` - Left window size when active

- `dockwin-right-width-min` - Right window size when inactive

- `dockwin-right-width-max` - Right window size when active

- `dockwin-add-buffers-to-modeline` - Set to nil if you want to disable the modeline buffer list for docking windows.

- `dockwin-trim-special-buffer-names` - If not nil, asterisks will be trimmed from special buffer names in mode-line.

- `dockwin-on-kill` - Determines what should be done when a buffer is killed.
  This works only for `kill-buffer`. The behavior of `quit-window` even with the
  `'kill` option is determined by `dockwin-on-quit`. If set to `'close`, the window
  is closed. If set to `'deactivate`, the window is deactivated. If set to `nil`,
  nothing happens, window is kept active.

- `dockwin-on-quit` - Determines what should be done when `quit-window` happens.
  If set to `'close`, the window is closed. If set to `'close-bury`, the window
  is closed and buffer buried. If set to `'deactivate`, the window is
  deactivated. If set to `'deactivate-bury`, the window is deactivated and
  buffer buried. If set to `'bury`, the buffer buried and window is kept active.
  If set to `nil`, nothing happens, window is kept active."

- `dockwin-mode-line-separator-face` - Face used for separators on DockWin mode-line.

- `dockwin-mode-line-current-buffer-face` - Face used to display current buffer on DockWin mode-line.

- `dockwin-mode-line-other-buffer-face` - Face used to display other buffers on DockWin mode-line.



Commands
--------

- `(dockwin-go-to-previous-window)` - Go to previous non-docking window. If there is no history, go
  to other window.

- `(dockwin-switch-to-buffer (&optional position))` - Switch buffer in the window at `POSITION` to other
  valid buffer in that window. If `POSITION` is nil, and inside a docking window, use the current
  window position.

- `(dockwin-create-window (position))` - Create the docking window at `POSITION` if not yet created.
  Show the most recent buffer in the window. If there is no buffer to show, display message. Return the
  window.

- `(dockwin-create-bottom-window)` - Create the bottom docking window if not yet created. Show the
  most recent buffer in the window. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-create-top-window)` - Create the top docking window if not yet created. Show the most
  recent buffer in the window. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-create-left-window)` - Create the left docking window if not yet created. Show the most
  recent buffer in the window. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-create-right-window)` - Create the right docking window if not yet created. Show the most
  recent buffer in the window. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-activate-window (position))` - Activate the docking window at `POSITION` if it's live.
  If not, create it, activate it and show the most recent buffer. If there is no buffer to show,
  display message. Return the window.

- `(dockwin-activate-bottom-window)` - Activate the bottom docking window if it's live. If not, create
  it, activate it and show the most recent buffer. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-activate-top-window)` - Activate the top docking window if it's live. If not, create it,
  activate it and show the most recent buffer. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-activate-left-window)` - Activate the left docking window if it's live. If not, create
  it, activate it and show the most recent buffer. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-activate-right-window)` - Activate the right docking window if it's live. If not, create
  it, activate it and show the most recent buffer. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-toggle-bottom-window)` - Activate the bottom docking window if it's not active. If it is
  active, return to previous non-docking window.

- `(dockwin-toggle-top-window)` - Activate the top docking window if it's not active. If it is
  active, return to previous non-docking window.

- `(dockwin-toggle-left-window)` - Activate the left docking window if it's not active. If it is
  active, return to previous non-docking window.

- `(dockwin-toggle-right-window)` - Activate the right docking window if it's not active. If it is
  active, return to previous non-docking window.

- `(dockwin-close-window (&optional position frame))` - Close the docking window at POSITION in
  FRAME if it's live. If not, do nothing. If POSITION is nil, try to close the currently selected
  window. FRAME defaults to current frame

- `(dockwin-close-top-window ())` - Close the top docking window if it's live. If not, do nothing.

- `(dockwin-close-bottom-window ())` - Close the bottom docking window if it's live. If not, do
  nothing.

- `(dockwin-close-left-window ())` - Close the left docking window if it's live. If not, do nothing.

- `(dockwin-close-right-window ())` - Close the right docking window if it's live. If not, do
  nothing.

- `(dockwin-kill-buffer (&optional position))` - Kill the current buffer in window at `POSITION`. Show
  the next valid buffer in the window instead. If `POSITION` is nil, use the currently selected window.

- `dockwin-next-buffer (&optional position)` - Display the next buffer in docking window at
  `POSITION`. The next buffer is the next one in the alphabetical order. Position must be one of: top,
  bottom, left, right.

- `dockwin-previous-buffer (&optional position)` - Display the previous buffer in docking window at
  `POSITION`. The previous buffer is the previous one in the alphabetical order. Position must be one
  of: top, bottom, left, right.

Commit message:

Swap window and show same buffer functions.

README.md, after:

DockWin - Lightweight Docking Windows for Emacs
===============================================

![](screencast.gif?raw=true)

DockWin provides four expandable side docking windows for your Emacs frame, one
on each side of the frame (top, bottom, left, right). The docking windows have
three states: closed, inactive, and active. They automatically expand when
activated and collapse when inactive. Each window can be configured to host only
certain selected buffers (e.g. use the bottom window for shells and compile
windows, top for help windows and side for undo tree).

The goal of DockWin is to provide the docking window functionality which can be
found integrated into larger packages (e.g. EDE) in a lightweight independent
package. Also, DockWin will not destroy any of your non-docking windows (e.g. in
order to re-create the layout) which might be important for other packages.


Basic Usage
-----------

Whenever a new dockable buffer is displayed, a docking window will be created.
If you choose to automatically activate the window (see Configuration), it will
also be expanded and the focus will be placed in the window. The commands
`dockwin-toggle-<position>-window` can be used to activate and deactivate a
specific window. It's good to have a convenient binding for that (see Key
Bindings).

The command `dockwin-go-to-previous-window` can be used globally to always go to
the previous active non-docking window. I prefer that over the standard
`other-window`, especially when coupled with
[Windmove](http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Window-Convenience.html).
To accompany this command, there is also `dockwin-swap-windows` which swaps the
buffers in the current and previous windows, and
`dockwin-same-buffer-in-previous-window` which shows the current buffer also
in the previous window.

When a docking window is activated, the command `dockwin-switch-to-buffer` is
locally bound to a key, which by default is `C-x C-b`, and thus replaces the
standard buffer list key. This command lists all the buffers that match the
current docking window using IDO and allows for convenient switching between
relevant buffers in a docking window. The buffers are listed in the order that
they were current; the buffers that were current most recently come first.

When enabled, the mode-line will display all buffers relevant for the docking
window, sorted alphabetically. It is then possible to move to the previous/next
buffer in alphabetical order using
`dockwin-previous-buffer`/`dockwin-next-buffer`, by default bound to `C-x
<left>`/`C-x <right>`. It is also possible to simply click on the buffer name
on the mode-line to switch to the buffer.

You can control what happens after killing a buffer or quitting a window (using
`quit-window`). In such case, the docking window can remain active (displaying a
different buffer), become inactive or completely closed (hidden). It is also
possible to configure certain buffers to always be killed when quitting the
window. `C-x C-g` bound to `dockwin-close-window` can be used to close the
window without killing/quitting any buffers.


Installation
------------

I highly recommend installing DockWin through elpa (it's available on melpa).

```
M-x package-install dockwin
```

Then, add the following line to your init file:

```
(require 'dockwin)
```


Configuration - Key Bindings
----------------------------

DockWin does not perform any global keyboard setup, but it's easy to configure the relevant key bindings.

If you plan to use all four windows and are not really using the default Fx bindings, this might work:

```
(global-set-key (kbd "<f1>") 'dockwin-toggle-left-window)
(global-set-key (kbd "<f2>") 'dockwin-toggle-top-window)
(global-set-key (kbd "<f3>") 'dockwin-toggle-bottom-window)
(global-set-key (kbd "<f4>") 'dockwin-toggle-right-window)
```

If you need only one or two windows, this might work for you:

```
(global-set-key (kbd "C-'") 'dockwin-toggle-bottom-window)
(global-set-key (kbd "C-\"") 'dockwin-toggle-right-window)

```

The `dockwin-go-to-previous-window` command is handy as well to jump between two frequently used
non-docking windows, you can bind it globally e.g. over the standard `other-window`:

```
(global-set-key (kbd "C-x o") 'dockwin-dockwin-go-to-previous-window)
```

Finally, if you would like to customize the local key bindings used inside the docked buffers,
modify the `dockwin-buffer-mode-map`, e.g.:

```
(define-key dockwin-buffer-mode-map (kbd "C-x C-b") nil)
(define-key dockwin-buffer-mode-map (kbd "<new_key>") 'dockwin-switch-to-buffer)
```


Configuration - DockWin
-----------------------

Now, you can configure DocWin using customize:

```
M-x customzie-group dockwin
```

or by changing the following variables in your init file:

- `dockwin-buffer-settings` - Buffer settings. Determine which buffers should be shown in docking
  windows and how they should be displayed. The value is a list of `CONFIG` which should be of the
  form `(PATTERN . PROPERTIES)` where `PATTERN` is characterizing the buffer and `PROPERTIES` is a list
  of `KEYWORDS` and `VALUES`. `PATTERN` can be a buffer name matching regexp, or a symbol specifying
  the major-mode of the buffer. Note, that for some buffers, the major mode symbol will not work as
  the mode is set after the buffer is displayed (for those, use the regexp name instead). The first
  matching configuration is used. Available keywords:
    - `:position` - The docking window which should be used for the buffer. Possible values: `top`,
      `:bottom`, `left`, `right`.
    - `:activate` - If true, the docking window will be activated when this buffer is displayed. Note,
             that if some other Emacs code activates the window, DockWin will not prevent it even if
             this is set to nil.
    - `:kill` - If true, always kill the buffer on quit.
    - `:catch-switching` - If set to 't, `switch-to-buffer` events will be caught as well. If set to
              'f, those events will not be caught. If set to nil, default value will be used. Some
              buffers are displayed in the current window using `switch-to-buffer` rather than
              `display-buffer`, e.g. term. Using this option will allow for displaying such buffers
              in the docking windows as well. However, this will make it impossible to display the
              buffer in a non-docking window, e.g. using `C-x b`. After catching such event,
              window will always be activated.

- `dockwin-default-position` - Default docking window position for a buffer specified in the
  settings. This must be one of: `left`, `top`, `right`, or `bottom`. This value can be overridden
  by a property in `dockwin-buffer-settings`.

- `dockwin-default-kill` - If not nil, buffers in docking windows will be killed by default. This
  value can be overridden by a property in `dockwin-buffer-settings`.

- `dockwin-default-activate` - If not nil, windows will be activated by default when buffers are
  displayed. This value can be overridden by a property in `dockwin-buffer-settings`.

- `dockwin-default-catch-switching` - If not nil, `switch-to-buffer` events will be caught as well.
  Some buffers are displayed in the current window using `switch-to-buffer` rather than
  `display-buffer`, e.g. `term`. Using this option will allow for displaying such buffers in the
  docking windows as well. However, this will make it impossible to display the buffer in a
  non-docking window, e.g. using `C-x b`. After catching such event, window will always be
  activated. This value can be overridden by a property in `dockwin-buffer-settings`.

- `dockwin-bottom-height-min` - Bottom window size when inactive

- `dockwin-bottom-height-max` - Bottom window size when active

- `dockwin-top-height-min` - Top window size when inactive

- `dockwin-top-height-max` - Top window size when active

- `dockwin-left-width-min` - Left window size when inactive

- `dockwin-left-width-max` - Left window size when active

- `dockwin-right-width-min` - Right window size when inactive

- `dockwin-right-width-max` - Right window size when active

- `dockwin-add-buffers-to-modeline` - Set to nil if you want to disable the modeline buffer list for docking windows.

- `dockwin-trim-special-buffer-names` - If not nil, asterisks will be trimmed from special buffer names in mode-line.

- `dockwin-on-kill` - Determines what should be done when a buffer is killed.
  This works only for `kill-buffer`. The behavior of `quit-window` even with the
  `'kill` option is determined by `dockwin-on-quit`. If set to `'close`, the window
  is closed. If set to `'deactivate`, the window is deactivated. If set to `nil`,
  nothing happens, window is kept active.

- `dockwin-on-quit` - Determines what should be done when `quit-window` happens.
  If set to `'close`, the window is closed. If set to `'close-bury`, the window
  is closed and buffer buried. If set to `'deactivate`, the window is
  deactivated. If set to `'deactivate-bury`, the window is deactivated and
  buffer buried. If set to `'bury`, the buffer buried and window is kept active.
  If set to `nil`, nothing happens, window is kept active."

- `dockwin-mode-line-separator-face` - Face used for separators on DockWin mode-line.

- `dockwin-mode-line-current-buffer-face` - Face used to display current buffer on DockWin mode-line.

- `dockwin-mode-line-other-buffer-face` - Face used to display other buffers on DockWin mode-line.



Commands
--------

- `(dockwin-go-to-previous-window)` - Go to previous non-docking window. If there is no history, go
  to other window.

- `(dockwin-swap-windows)` - Swap buffers between the current and previous non-docking window.

- `(dockwin-same-buffer-in-previous-window)` - Show the current buffer also in the previous window.

- `(dockwin-switch-to-buffer (&optional position))` - Switch buffer in the window at `POSITION` to other
  valid buffer in that window. If `POSITION` is nil, and inside a docking window, use the current
  window position.

- `(dockwin-create-window (position))` - Create the docking window at `POSITION` if not yet created.
  Show the most recent buffer in the window. If there is no buffer to show, display message. Return the
  window.

- `(dockwin-create-bottom-window)` - Create the bottom docking window if not yet created. Show the
  most recent buffer in the window. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-create-top-window)` - Create the top docking window if not yet created. Show the most
  recent buffer in the window. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-create-left-window)` - Create the left docking window if not yet created. Show the most
  recent buffer in the window. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-create-right-window)` - Create the right docking window if not yet created. Show the most
  recent buffer in the window. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-activate-window (position))` - Activate the docking window at `POSITION` if it's live.
  If not, create it, activate it and show the most recent buffer. If there is no buffer to show,
  display message. Return the window.

- `(dockwin-activate-bottom-window)` - Activate the bottom docking window if it's live. If not, create
  it, activate it and show the most recent buffer. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-activate-top-window)` - Activate the top docking window if it's live. If not, create it,
  activate it and show the most recent buffer. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-activate-left-window)` - Activate the left docking window if it's live. If not, create
  it, activate it and show the most recent buffer. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-activate-right-window)` - Activate the right docking window if it's live. If not, create
  it, activate it and show the most recent buffer. If there is no buffer to show, display message.

- `(dockwin-toggle-bottom-window)` - Activate the bottom docking window if it's not active. If it is
  active, return to previous non-docking window.

- `(dockwin-toggle-top-window)` - Activate the top docking window if it's not active. If it is
  active, return to previous non-docking window.

- `(dockwin-toggle-left-window)` - Activate the left docking window if it's not active. If it is
  active, return to previous non-docking window.

- `(dockwin-toggle-right-window)` - Activate the right docking window if it's not active. If it is
  active, return to previous non-docking window.

- `(dockwin-close-window (&optional position frame))` - Close the docking window at POSITION in
  FRAME if it's live. If not, do nothing. If POSITION is nil, try to close the currently selected
  window. FRAME defaults to current frame

- `(dockwin-close-top-window ())` - Close the top docking window if it's live. If not, do nothing.

- `(dockwin-close-bottom-window ())` - Close the bottom docking window if it's live. If not, do
  nothing.

- `(dockwin-close-left-window ())` - Close the left docking window if it's live. If not, do nothing.

- `(dockwin-close-right-window ())` - Close the right docking window if it's live. If not, do
  nothing.

- `(dockwin-kill-buffer (&optional position))` - Kill the current buffer in window at `POSITION`. Show
  the next valid buffer in the window instead. If `POSITION` is nil, use the currently selected window.

- `dockwin-next-buffer (&optional position)` - Display the next buffer in docking window at
  `POSITION`. The next buffer is the next one in the alphabetical order. Position must be one of: top,
  bottom, left, right.

- `dockwin-previous-buffer (&optional position)` - Display the previous buffer in docking window at
  `POSITION`. The previous buffer is the previous one in the alphabetical order. Position must be one
  of: top, bottom, left, right.
